Because grid allows cells to overlap
each other, there's more that you can do
here besides just what I just showed
you with figure and figure caption,
overlapping cells and
putting in a little bit of transparency.
And the 11 bonus code pen, which is
available from the website here I have,
an actual animation that's going on here.
And we have, in this case, two images of
cats that are fading one into the other.
And I have coded this with CSS grid,
and CSS animation.
So I'll just talk you through a little
bit about how this is set up so
you can see how this is done.
I'm not saying it's a perfect solution or
a beautiful solution, clearly there we
could add some UI here with something like
JavaScript to give a user more
control over what's going on.
But this is just to generate some interest
in overlapping grid cells and to get you
thinking about other ways that you might
be able to use them in your own work.
So here we have in our HTML,
we have two figures and
I've given one of them a class of cat1.
And they're basically set up the way that
you've seen figures set up throughout
this course we have an image,
and we have a figure caption,
just as you've seen before.
So what we're doing here
In our HTML is here
at cat1 that is going
to be our wrapper for
this particular animation.
So this is the figure itself,
we're adding the animation so
on the wrapper we have
a layout that's going on.
That's right here display
grid with a gap of 1%.
And then I have said for
my figures, I overlap them,
both figures take the same style here.
Where I've said the grid row and
the grid column are exactly the same.
It's a one cell grid, one column, one row,
and these are gonna overlap each other and
I set a width on it
because this is an image.
Notice too I've added a property
here called justify-self center and
that is a grid property that
allows this fixed width piece of
content to center itself in
the middle of that particular self.
Then on cat1, I can just fill in
the kind of animation that I want.
So what I'm really doing here, is I'm
fading in and out the cat that's on top,
cat1 that fades in and out.
And the other cat is up there
on the screen the whole time,
but because the first cat is fading in and
out,
it looks like they are alternating
even though they're not.
If you're not familiar with CSS animation,
this isn't a CSS animation course.
But I'll just briefly sort of tell
you what these properties are and
what they do.
First of all we wanna give this
animation a name I've called it fade.
And the reason you give it a name is
because you're gonna attach it to what's
down here this keyframes part of this.
And this is the instructions for what
it should be doing at each point along
the path in the animation,
I'll explain that in just a moment.
So I've given it a one second delay to
start, the reason I do that is because we
wanna give these images a chance to
load in before the animation starts.
We can say how long we want
the animation to last,
in this case I've said five seconds.
And then we have some things about
the animation film mode said both
the iteration count infinite, in other
words, never stop, you could put in some
number of iterations here if you want,
and the animation direction is alternate.
So we're gonna run the animation this way,
and then we're gonna run it back,
we're gonna run it this way,
and we're gonna run it back.
If you put it all in one direction, so
it runs start to finish, start to finish,
start to finish,
that can get a little bit choppy.
So here it's running back and forth, so
that's sort of the broad characteristics
of the CSS animation up front.
And then here in the key frames,
we say exactly what we wanna do.
I've set up 0%, 25%, 75%, and
100%, that is of the time,
that's what those percents are referring
to 100% of the time would be in this case,
five seconds,
the animation duration that I set here.
So 25% of that five seconds
would be at 1.25 seconds in
this specific case,
we're going to do this thing.
So here the keyframes
are set up such that and
the first sort of 25% of the animation,
the first one and a half second,
1.25 seconds will have it
displaying at the same opacity.
Basically new animation is occurring,
then between 25 and
75% of the time so 1.25 to 3.75 seconds,
we'll transition from an opacity of 1
to an opacity of 0, that's the fade.
That's where the fade completely happens.
And then we'll keep that to 100%.
So that's what's happening here,
just two grid cells,
we've placed them on top of each other
then we animate one to fade in and out.
So that's one idea that you might take
away and thinking about overlapping
grid cells and what you could
do with them in your designs.